One of the tools that can help us
to actively search out reminders
is JW Library.
This amazing app has been installed
on over 15 million devices.
But do you know
how much work it takes
to develop and maintain this app?
Well, we are now going  to look
behind the scenes
and meet some of the brothers
who have either worked on this project
or helped to organize that work.
This really is an opportunity to visit
an area in Bethel
that you don’t get to see on tour.
Of course, there are many brothers
associated with the work.
But we would like you
to get to know three
of these very hard-working brothers,
and let me introduce them to you.
First of all, Brother Per Christensen,
the overseer of MEPS Programming.
Now, Per, you’ve been in this country
working in the U.S. Bethel
for a number of years.
But where are you from originally?
I was born in Denmark
and served there in the branch for years.
So when did you and your wife, Berit,
come to the United States?
In 1994.
And our first year was in Brooklyn.
And then we had 18 years in Patterson
and then back to Brooklyn again
for three and a half years.
And now we’re in Warwick
since November last year.
Well, I know you worked
in Translation Services for a while
because, in fact,
the two of us worked together
in the same department
there for a while.
But what type of work
have you been involved with
since you’ve come
to the United States?
Lots of exciting and challenging jobs.
Working in Translation Services
—that was training and support
for our translators worldwide.
Now in MEPS Programming
—that is all about
distribution of spiritual food
to all our brothers and sisters.
So we have a ton of work
and a lot of challenges.
But I’m also working with a lot
of very, very talented
brothers and sisters.
So it’s a lot of fun,
and it’s great going to work every day.
That’s great to hear, Per.
In fact, I’m even tempted
to come back and work with you.
Oh, we would love that.
I think I’d love it too.
Well, let’s turn our attention
to Brother Alfredo Serna.
Now, you are the assistant overseer
of MEPS Programming.
In fact, you and I worked together
in Mexico back in 2003.
Could you tell us a little bit
about what you were doing at that time?
My last work assignment involved overseeing
the large Translation Department there.
It was an amazing privilege to work
with translators in sign language
and the indigenous languages,
a true joy to contribute
to preparing publications
for those in the minority groups.
So when did you and your wife, Gina,
come to the United States to work here?
We arrived at Patterson in 2007.
We have fond memories of that time,
and it’s something we still treasure.
Very good.
And now,
Brother Paul Willies,
where do you originally come from
along with your wife, Su-lin,
and when did you come
to the United States?
Well, we’re both originally
from South Africa,
and we served there in Bethel
for a number of years.
And then in 2010,
we were transferred to work
along with MEPS Programming
here in the U.S.
So, what type of work
have you been involved with,
particularly recently?
Well, most of my time in Bethel
I’ve been working
on the Watchtower Translation System,
or WTS.
Actually,
I was working along with Per.
Per was in headquarters,
and I was working
on the programming team
that we had in South Africa.
WTS is the program
that the translators use
to help organize and manage
their translation work.
And then, of course, most recently
I’ve been working on the mobile apps
—the JW Library app
and the JW Library Sign Language app.
Very good.
Well, now all of you work
in MEPS Programming.
Per, can you just tell us a little bit?
We’re familiar with the term MEPS,
but what really is it?
Well, MEPS stands for
Multilanguage Electronic Publishing System.
That didn’t help me at all.
Sorry.
Can you make it a little bit
more simple so we can understand?
We make the tools, or the programs,
that the organization needs
to make publications
and have them translated
into hundreds of languages.
So I can illustrate it this way:
that we are not making
the spiritual food,
but we are building
a conveyor belt for the spiritual food
from the faithful and discreet slave
down to the printing presses
or to our website
or to Watchtower Library,
ONLINE LIBRARY
or, like in this case, JW Library.
Thanks so much.
Now, at long last, I do understand
a bit more
about what MEPS means.
Now, as I travel around,
the brothers and sisters,
they tell me how much
they love JW Library.
But there seems to be no end
to the suggestions
for improvements and features
—and long lists of suggestions.
Can you give us a little bit
of an idea of what’s involved
with trying to develop
a new feature for JW Library?
Yes, the brothers and the sisters
really love using the app,
and because of that,
they’re keen to get many new features.
Of course, we wish we could just add
all those new features into the app,
but the truth is we just can’t.
Yes, adding each new feature
involves a lot of work.
And we also need to determine
whether a feature
that’s requested is just a “nice to have”
or is it something
that’s going to address a real need?
For example, will it really help an elder
who is out on a shepherding call
or maybe a pioneer sister
who is at the public witnessing carts
or at her Bible study or return visit?
Also, very important
to us is trying to make
each new feature
very simple to use . . .
Ah, thanks for doing that.
. . . especially for a first-time user,
someone who’s never used the app before.
And then, of course,
before we start working on anything,
we always get approval
from the Governing Body.
Ah, that’s a good thing to do too.
Like one feature
that many have been asking for
is the ability
to add notes into the app.
And, of course,
before we start programming it,
we have to make sure
that it actually does what is wanted.
We made a video
that shows how we go about that.
You have?
Would you like to see it?
Well, of course.
I’d love to see it!
Hello.
How are you?
Good, good, good.
Welcome!
Thanks for coming.
How about yourself?
Fine, thank you.
Have a seat.
All right, so glad you could be here!
Thank you so much.
Oh, so fancy.
Yeah!
So we get to talk about JW Library today.
So, what are some ways
that you use JW Library?
I mean, it’s revolutionized
going to meetings.
Oh, my.
I go to meetings
and sometimes I just carry my iPad.
So the fact that you can make
the text larger. . .
It’s easy to listen
to the readings right in the app now,
and so I—I find myself doing that.
So if we were
to make a notes feature,
what are some things
that you’d like to be able to do?
I mean, if you could see
all your notes without tapping on
each one that would be great.
And even if you make a note in,
maybe, your phone
and it can also be saved in your tablet,
that would be really nice.
Yeah.
Well, what if I told you
that in front of you
is an early version of JW Library?
Whoa!
Cool!
Oh, fantastic!
This is it?
With notes—yeah.
Ooh.
So a few months ago,
the Governing Body
gave us approval to start working
on the notes feature.
We got together as a team,
and we’ll do, like, these rough sketches,
and programmers write code.
But before we release an update,
we have a group of testers.
And, you know, they’ll find
little glitches or bugs or things,
but they’ll try to work it out
with the programmers.
After that, we have
a pretty stable version of JW Library.
The goal is to show it to you,
and you can let us know
what you think.
So now that you’ve seen
the new notes feature
in JW Library, what do you think?
I love that I can tag the personal things
that I need to work on
or a comment or a scripture
that I can encourage someone with.
This is fantastic!
Yeah.
It’s great.
I like that I can find my notes,
especially using the search feature.
It’s great!
And it’s really neat
how my comments—
I can place it right next
to the paragraph for meetings,
and it doesn’t cover the actual text.
The ability to back it up
so you can restore it to another device,
that’s going to be really helpful.
I love it!
Amazing!
OK.
Go ahead.
Yeah.
Go ahead!
So you’re telling us we can proceed.
That’s fantastic!
But, brothers, you can’t show us
something like that
and not tell us when
we’re going to get it.
Well, we said on the website
that it was coming soon.
I know you said that on the website,
but when?
Is it OK to be more specific than that?
I think that’s why they invited us here.
Paul, let’s hear it.
Well, we’re happy to tell you
that the notes feature
in JW Library
will be coming soon,
and by soon we mean
during May of 2017—this month!
So we can go and check
the app stores for an update.
Oh, that’s wonderful to hear.
So all of us will be happy
to be able to put our own reminders
right there in the JW Library app.
Well, I’m looking forward
to being able to do that as well.
But now,
while I’ve got you here,
we’re not going to let you go
until we ask this big question:
What are you working on now?
In other words, what can we expect
to see soon with JW Library?
We have another brief video showing
what the team is working on
to support the Study Bible
on the JW Library app.
Would you like to see it?
That’s wonderful.
Let’s have a look.
Later this year,
work will begin on adding
the Study Edition
of the New World Translation
to JW Library.
When this edition becomes available
in your language,
you will be able to discover
spiritual gems in the study notes.
And the new media gallery
will help you
to visualize the people, places,
and things you read about.
You will also see
the new overviews of each book,
play the introductory videos,
and study additional appendix material.
All of this and more
is coming soon to JW Library!
That sounds so exciting.
So we’ll all look forward
to getting that feature.
You said, “coming soon,” didn’t you?
Anyway,
we’d like to thank you very much
for the fact that you’ve come along
and you’ve explained so much to us
about what goes on
with MEPS Programming
and the JW Library app.
But before you go,
we’d like to ask you,
when you go back to your department,
please, take an expression
of our appreciation
back to the hard-working
brothers and sisters
who are working behind the scenes
in providing this tool for us.
Will do.
Happy to.
Thanks.
Thank you very much.